### Description

There are some spherical balloons taped onto a flat wall that represents the XY-plane. The balloons are represented as a 2D integer array `points` where `points[i] = [xstart, xend]` denotes a balloon whose **horizontal diameter** stretches between `xstart` and `xend`. You do not know the exact y-coordinates of the balloons.

Arrows can be shot up **directly vertically** (in the positive y-direction) from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with `xstart` and `xend` is **burst** by an arrow shot at `x` if `xstart <= x <= xend`. There is **no limit** to the number of arrows that can be shot. A shot arrow keeps traveling up infinitely, bursting any balloons in its path.

Given the array `points`, return _the **minimum** number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** points = \[\[10,16],\[2,8],\[1,6],\[7,12]]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
- Shoot an arrow at x = 6, bursting the balloons \[2,8] and \[1,6].
- Shoot an arrow at x = 11, bursting the balloons \[10,16] and \[7,12].

**Example 2:**

**Input:** points = \[\[1,2],\[3,4],\[5,6],\[7,8]]
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:** One arrow needs to be shot for each balloon for a total of 4 arrows.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** points = \[\[1,2],\[2,3],\[3,4],\[4,5]]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
- Shoot an arrow at x = 2, bursting the balloons \[1,2] and \[2,3].
- Shoot an arrow at x = 4, bursting the balloons \[3,4] and \[4,5].

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= points.length <= 105`
- `points[i].length == 2`
- `-2^31 <= xstart < xend <= 2^31 - 1`

**My Implementation**

```cpp
//Approach-1 (Just like Leetcode - "Non Overlapping Intervals")
//Sorting on the basis of "End coordinate"
class Solution {
public:
    int findMinArrowShots(vector<vector<int>>& points) {
        int n = points.size();
        sort(begin(points), end(points), [](vector<int>& v1, vector<int>& v2) {
            return v1[1] < v2[1];
        });
        
        int count         = 1;
        int lastEndPoint  = points[0][1];
        
        for(int i = 1; i<n; i++) {
            int curr_startPoint = points[i][0];
            
            if(curr_startPoint > lastEndPoint) {
                count++;
                lastEndPoint = points[i][1];
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
};


//Approach-2 (Sorting on the basis of start coordinate)
//Using O(n) space
class Solution {
public:
    int findMinArrowShots(vector<vector<int>>& points) {
        int n = points.size();
        sort(begin(points), end(points));
        
        vector<vector<int>> balloons;
        balloons.push_back(points[0]);
        
        for(int i = 1; i<n; i++) {
            int currStartPoint = points[i][0];
            int currEndPoint   = points[i][1];
            
            int prevStartPoint = balloons.back()[0];
            int prevEndPoint   = balloons.back()[1];
            
            if(currStartPoint > prevEndPoint) { //no overlap
                balloons.push_back(points[i]);
            } else {
                //overlap
                balloons.back()[0] = max(prevStartPoint, currStartPoint);
                balloons.back()[1] = min(prevEndPoint, currEndPoint);
            }
        }
        
        return balloons.size();
    }
};

//Approach-3 (Sorting on the basis of "Start Coordinate")
//Using O(1) space
class Solution {
public:
    int findMinArrowShots(vector<vector<int>>& points) {
        int n = points.size();
        sort(begin(points), end(points));
        
        vector<int> prev = points[0];
        int count = 1;
        for(int i = 1; i<n; i++) {
            int currStartPoint = points[i][0];
            int currEndPoint   = points[i][1];
            
            int prevStartPoint = prev[0];
            int prevEndPoint   = prev[1];
            
            if(currStartPoint > prevEndPoint) { //no overlap
                count++;
                prev = points[i];
            } else {
                //overlap
                prev[0] = max(prevStartPoint, currStartPoint);
                prev[1] = min(prevEndPoint, currEndPoint);
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
};
```

# Intuition

Since arrows can only be shot vertically, our aim is to find the overlap among the balloons along the x-axis. By doing so, we can determine the minimum number of arrows required.

# Approach

1. Sort the balloons based on their starting. If the starting coordinates are equal, sort based on the ending coordinates.
2. Initialize a variable `prevlast` to keep track of the end coordinate of the previous balloon.
3. Iterate through the sorted balloons.

- If the end coordinate of the current balloon is within the range of prevlast, update prevlast to the minimum of the current end coordinate and prevlast.
- If the end coordinate of the current balloon is beyond prevlast, update prevlast to the end coordinate of the current balloon and increment the arrow count.

4. Return the arrow count incremented by 1 to account for the last balloon.

# Complexity

- Time complexity : O(n log n), where n is the number of balloons. The iteration through the sorted balloons takes O(n) time. Thus, the overall time complexity is O(n log n)

- Space complexity : We use only a constant amount of extra space for variables and sorting, so the space complexity is O(1).