### Description

In a gold mine `grid` of size `m x n`, each cell in this mine has an integer representing the amount of gold in that cell, `0` if it is empty.

Return the maximum amount of gold you can collect under the conditions:

- Every time you are located in a cell you will collect all the gold in that cell.
- From your position, you can walk one step to the left, right, up, or down.
- You can't visit the same cell more than once.
- Never visit a cell with `0` gold.
- You can start and stop collecting gold from **any** position in the grid that has some gold.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** grid = \[\[0,6,0],\[5,8,7],\[0,9,0]]
**Output:** 24
**Explanation:**
\[\[0,6,0],
 \[5,8,7],
 \[0,9,0]]
Path to get the maximum gold, 9 -> 8 -> 7.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** grid = \[\[1,0,7],\[2,0,6],\[3,4,5],\[0,3,0],\[9,0,20]]
**Output:** 28
**Explanation:**
\[\[1,0,7],
 \[2,0,6],
 \[3,4,5],
 \[0,3,0],
 \[9,0,20]]
Path to get the maximum gold, 1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 5 -> 6 -> 7.

**Constraints:**

- `m == grid.length`
- `n == grid[i].length`
- `1 <= m, n <= 15`
- `0 <= grid[i][j] <= 100`
- There are at most **25** cells containing gold.

**My Implementation**

```cpp

```

## Solution

---

### Approach 1: Depth-First Search with Backtracking

#### Intuition

We need to collect the maximum amount of gold possible from a given `grid`.

It's possible to traverse the `grid` and find the cells containing gold using nested loops, but this won't provide us with the path with the maximum gold. Instead, we will use depth-first search (DFS) to search for the best path.

We can begin searching for gold in any cell of the `grid` that has gold, so we perform a depth-first search for gold starting at each cell.

Let's consider our search function. If the starting cell contains gold, we should continue searching for gold in the adjacent cells. However, if the starting cell does not contain gold, we should halt the search since this path cannot lead to a valid solution.

What if a cell in the middle of the search process doesn't contain gold? We could restart the entire search process, or we could backtrack to the last cell on this path that contained gold and resume the search from there.

This idea is called backtracking. If a certain choice cannot lead to a valid solution, we can implement backtracking to abandon the current choice to return to the last valid choice and explore other possibilities.

> If you are not familiar with backtracking, we recommend you read our [Backtracking Explore Card](https://leetcode.com/explore/learn/card/recursion-ii/472/backtracking/2654/).

We will define a recursive function, `dfsBacktrack`, that returns the path with the maximum gold for a given starting cell.

Our base case occurs when the current cell contains no gold or when the given coordinates are outside the matrix boundary. In either case, we return zero.

Next, let's discuss the recursive case. First, we collect the gold at the current cell by saving its original value and setting the cell to `0`.

Then, we explore the possible paths from this cell by calling `dfsBacktrack` recursively for each of the four adjacent cells and updating the maximum gold if we find a better path.

For a given cell with coordinates `(row, col)` the four neighbors are:

- Below Neighbor: `(row + 0, col + 1)`
- Right Neighbor: `(row + 1, col + 0)`
- Above Neighbor: `(row + 0, col - 1)`
- Left Neighbor: `(row - 1, col + 0)`

We can observe that we change the first neighbor's column by the same amount as the next neighbor's row. By extracting this pattern, we can store it in an array `DIRECTIONS = {0, 1, 0, -1, 0}`. For each neighbor cell `i`, the row will change by `DIRECTIONS[i]`, and the column will change by `DIRECTIONS[i + 1]`.

After the recursive calls, we reset the current cell to its original value. This allows us to backtrack and explore other potential paths from this cell.

We return the sum of the maximum gold obtained and the current cell's gold value, representing the total gold collected on the path up to this point.

Then, from the `getMaximumGold` function, we use nested loops to traverse the possible starting cells. For each cell, we call the `dfsBacktrack` function and update the maximum gold value each time we find a better path.

#### Algorithm

1. Initialize a constant array `DIRECTIONS` to `{0, 1, 0, -1, 0}`.
2. Initialize the variable `rows` to the number of rows in the grid and `cols` to the number of columns.
3. Initialize a variable `maxGold` for storing the amount of gold collected on any path so far to `0`.
4. Define a function `dfsBacktrack` that finds the path with the maximum gold using DFS and backtracking. The function takes parameters `grid`, `rows`, `cols`, `row`, and `col`, representing the coordinates of the current cell within the `grid`.
    - Base Case: We cannot collect gold in the cell `(row, col)`. If `grid[row][col]` equals `0`, or if the cell is outside the `grid`, return zero. We check whether the cell is outside the grid using the condition `row < 0 or col < 0 or row == rows or col == cols`.
    - Initialize a local variable `maxGold` to `0`.
    - Mark the current cell as visited and save the value. Initialize a variable `originalVal` to `grid[row][col]`, and set `grid[row][col]` to `0`.
    - Search each of the four adjacent cells. Call `dfsBacktrack` for the cells to the left, right, above, and below the current cell. Update the maximum gold if a better path is found.
    - Reset the current cell back to its original value so that when we backtrack, we can explore other possible paths from this cell.
    - Return the sum of `maxGold` and `originalVal`, which represents the gold collected on this path so far.
5. Using nested `for` loops for each cell `(row, col)` in the `grid`, find the maximum gold that can be collected starting at that cell using the `dfsBacktrack` function and update `maxGold` whenever a better path is found.
6. Return `maxGold`.

The `dfsBacktrack` function is visualized below for the input `grid = [[1,5,0],[7,2,4]]` and the start cell `(0, 0)`:

#### Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int getMaximumGold(vector<vector<int>>& grid) {
        int rows = grid.size();
        int cols = grid[0].size();
        int maxGold = 0;

        // Search for the path with the maximum gold starting from each cell
        for (int row = 0; row < rows; row++) {
            for (int col = 0; col < cols; col++) {
                maxGold =
                    max(maxGold, dfsBacktrack(grid, rows, cols, row, col));
            }
        }
        return maxGold;
    }

private:
    const vector<int> DIRECTIONS = {0, 1, 0, -1, 0};

    int dfsBacktrack(vector<vector<int>>& grid, int rows, int cols, int row,
                     int col) {
        // Base case: this cell is not in the matrix or this cell has no gold
        if (row < 0 || col < 0 || row == rows || col == cols ||
            grid[row][col] == 0) {
            return 0;
        }
        int maxGold = 0;

        // Mark the cell as visited and save the value
        int originalVal = grid[row][col];
        grid[row][col] = 0;

        // Backtrack in each of the four directions
        for (int direction = 0; direction < 4; direction++) {
            maxGold =
                max(maxGold,
                    dfsBacktrack(grid, rows, cols, DIRECTIONS[direction] + row,
                                 DIRECTIONS[direction + 1] + col));
        }

        // Set the cell back to its original value
        grid[row][col] = originalVal;
        return maxGold + originalVal;
    }
};
```

#### Complexity Analysis

Let n be the number of rows in the `grid`, mmm be the number of columns, and g be the number of gold cells.

- Time complexity: O(m⋅n⋅4^g)
    
    In the `getMaximumGold` function, we call the `dfsBacktrack` function once for each cell in the `grid`, totaling m⋅n times.
    
    The backtrack function recursively calls itself. Each time we call the `dfsBacktrack` function from a cell containing gold, 4 recursive calls are made. That means the backtrack function can be called up to 4^g times for a given starting cell.
    
    Therefore, the overall time complexity is O(m⋅n⋅4^g)
    
- Space complexity: O(g)
    
    Since the length of a path through gold cells can be g, the recursive call stack can grow up to size g.
    

---

### Approach 2: Breadth-First Search with Backtracking

#### Intuition

When a problem can be solved with depth-first search, it can often also be solved with breadth-first search (BFS).

We will create a function, `bfsBacktrack`, that uses a breadth-first search to find the path with the maximum gold for a given starting cell.

We will use a queue to store the cells we need to search. Each entry in the queue contains the coordinates of the current cell, the gold found so far on the path, and a set storing the cells visited on this path so far.

When we pop the front cell from the queue, we store the amount of gold found on the path so far as `currGold`, and update the `maxGold` if the `currGold` is higher.

Then, if each of the four adjacent cells has gold, is inside the matrix, and has not yet been visited, we mark them as visited and add them to the queue with the updated gold collected. After adding the cell to the queue, we remove it from the visited set to explore other possible paths from this cell during backtracking.

To improve the efficiency of the solution, we calculate the total amount of gold in the matrix before searching. This way, if we discover a path that has the maximum possible total gold, we can halt the search process.

Similar to the above solution, we call `bfsBacktrack` for every starting cell in the matrix.

#### Algorithm

1. Initialize a constant array `DIRECTIONS` to `{0, 1, 0, -1, 0}`.
2. Initialize the variable `rows` to the number of rows in the grid and `cols` to the number of columns.
3. Calculate the total amount of gold in the `grid` using a running sum. Using nested `for` loops for each cell `(row, col)` in the `grid`, add the gold to `totalGold`.
4. Initialize a variable `maxGold` to store the amount of gold collected on the path with the maximum gold to `0`.
5. Define a function `bfsBacktrack` that searches for the path with the maximum gold using BFS and backtracking. The parameters are the `grid`, `rows`, `cols`, `row`, and `col`, representing the current cell coordinates in the `grid`.
    - Initialize a queue `queue` which stores the path and gold collected for a given cell.
    - Initialize a set `visited` for storing `(row, col)` pairs we have already visited.
    - Initialize a local variable `maxGold` to `0`.
    - Add the starting `(row, col)` pair to the visited set.
    - Add the starting cell's `row`, `col`, amount of gold, and visited set to the queue.
    - While the queue is not empty:
        - Pop the front entry from the queue. Save the row as `currRow`, the column as `currCol`, the visited set as `currVis`, and the gold as `currGold`.
        - Update `maxGold` to `currGold` if `currGold` is larger.
        - Search each of the four adjacent cells. For the cells to the left, right, above, and below of the current cell:
            - Set `nextRow` to the neighbor cell's row coordinates and `nextCol` to the neighbor's column coordinates.
            - Add the neighbor cell to the queue if it contains gold, is in the matrix, and has not been visited:
                - Mark this cell as visited in `currVis`.
                - Add this cell's gold to `currGold` and add the cell to the queue with a copy of the `currVis` set.
                - Remove this cell from `currVis` so that when we backtrack, we can explore other possible paths.
    - Return `maxGold`.
6. Using nested `for` loops for each cell `(row, col)` in the `grid`, find the maximum gold that can be collected at that cell using the `bfsBacktrack` function and update `maxGold` when a better path is found. If a path with the `totalGold` is found, return the `totalGold`.
7. Return `maxGold`.

#### Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int getMaximumGold(vector<vector<int>>& grid) {
        int rows = grid.size();
        int cols = grid[0].size();
        
        //  Find the total amount of gold in the grid
        int totalGold = 0;
        for (int row = 0; row < rows; row++) {
            for (int col = 0; col < cols; col++) {
                totalGold += grid[row][col];
            }
        }
        
        int maxGold = 0;

        // Search for the path with the maximum gold starting from each cell
        for (int row = 0; row < rows; row++) {
            for (int col = 0; col < cols; col++) {
                if (grid[row][col] != 0) {
                    maxGold = max(maxGold, bfsBacktrack(grid, rows, cols, row, col));
                    // If we found a path with the total gold, it's the max gold
                    if (maxGold == totalGold)
                        return totalGold;
                }
            }
        }
        return maxGold;
    }

private:
    const vector<int> DIRECTIONS = {0, 1, 0, -1, 0};

    int bfsBacktrack(vector<vector<int>>& grid,
                      int rows, int cols, int row, int col) {
        queue<tuple<int, int, int, bitset<1024>>> queue;
        bitset<1024> visited;
        int maxGold = 0;
        visited[row * cols + col] = 1;
        queue.push({row, col, grid[row][col], visited});

        while (!queue.empty()) {
            auto [currRow, currCol, currGold, currVis] = queue.front();
            queue.pop();
            maxGold = max(maxGold, currGold);

            // Search for gold in each of the 4 neighbor cells
            for (int direction = 0; direction < 4; direction++) {
                int nextRow = currRow + DIRECTIONS[direction];
                int nextCol = currCol + DIRECTIONS[direction + 1];

                // If the next cell is in the matrix, has gold, 
                // and has not been visited, add it to the queue
                if (nextRow >= 0 && nextRow < rows && nextCol >= 0 && nextCol < cols &&
                        grid[nextRow][nextCol] != 0 &&
                        !currVis[nextRow * cols + nextCol]) {
                    currVis[nextRow * cols + nextCol] = 1;
                    queue.push({nextRow, nextCol, currGold + grid[nextRow][nextCol], 
                                currVis});
                    currVis[nextRow * cols + nextCol] = 0;
                }
            }
        }
        return maxGold;
    }
};
```

> **Note:** The copy operations for `unordered_set` are inefficient and cause the C++ solution to result in "time limit exceeded". Therefore, the C++ implementation uses a bitset for the `visited` and `currVis` sets. Each bit in the bitset represents a cell in the matrix, with `1` indicating the cell as visited and `0` as unvisited. Matrix coordinates are mapped to the bitset using the formula `nextRow * cols + nextCol`.

#### Complexity Analysis

Let n be the number of rows in the `grid`, mmm be the number of columns, and g be the number of gold cells.

- Time complexity: O(m⋅n⋅4^g)
    
    In the `getMaximumGold` function, we call the `bfsBacktrack` function once for each cell in the `grid`, or m⋅n times.
    
    In the backtrack function, the inner loop runs four times, once for each neighbor of the current cell. The outer loop runs once for each entry in the queue. Up to 4^g entries get pushed to the queue. That means, for a given starting cell, the backtrack function can take up O(4^g) time.
    
    Therefore, the overall time complexity is O(m⋅n⋅4^g)
    
- Space complexity: O(g⋅4^g)


