### Description

Given two strings `s` and `t`, return `true` _if_ `s` _is a **subsequence** of_ `t`_, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

A **subsequence** of a string is a new string that is formed from the original string by deleting some (can be none) of the characters without disturbing the relative positions of the remaining characters. (i.e., `"ace"` is a subsequence of `"abcde"` while `"aec"` is not).

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "abc", t = "ahbgdc"
**Output:** true

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "axc", t = "ahbgdc"
**Output:** false

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= s.length <= 100`
- `0 <= t.length <= 10^4`
- `s` and `t` consist only of lowercase English letters.

**Follow up:** Suppose there are lots of incoming `s`, say `s1, s2, ..., sk` where `k >= 10^9`, and you want to check one by one to see if `t` has its subsequence. In this scenario, how would you change your code?

**My Implementation**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool isSubsequence(string s, string t) {

        int m = s.length();
        int n = t.length();
        
        int i = 0; //for s
        int j = 0; //for t

        while(i < m && j < n) {
            if(s[i] == t[j]) {
                i++;
            }
            j++;
        }

    if(m-i==0) return true;
    return false;
// return m==i;
    }
};
```

**Similar Question**

[[2486. Append Characters to String to Make Subsequence]]

# Approach

**How I think about a solution:**

Simply, all we have to do is just to count characters for each string `s` and `t` and check if `t` has all characters of `s`, but problem is there is an order to find the characters.

```javascript
Input: s = "abc", t = "ahbgdc"
```

In this case, we need to find `a` in `t` at first. The next character we must find is `b` at the position after `a`, the last character is `c` at the position after `b`. That is kind of a challenging part of this question. It might be tough to use simple `HashMap` or `Set` because they don't have order of data.

That's why I just started thinking it with a very simple example like this.

```javascript
Input: s = "abc", t = "abc"
```

In this case, if we check each character one by one in the both strings from beginning, we can return `true` and this simple example gave me a hint to solve this question.

I realized that if I have the same index number as length of `s` after I iterate though all characters, I can prove that I have subsequence in `t`.

To prove that, I also check a simple `false` case like this.

```javascript
Input: s = "abc", t = "abd"
```

In this case, when I iterate thorugh both strings from beginning, I stopped at index `2` in `s` which means I didn't find the last character `c` in `t`, so this is a `false` case because `index number for s(2)` is not equal to `length of s(3)`. I couldn't get to `the last position of s`.

`The last position` means `the last index number + 1` because index usually starts from `0` and counting length of string starts from `1`.

From my thought process above, I tried to iterate thorough both strings from beginning at the same time.

Let's recap what I said with this example.

```javascript
Input: s = "abc", t = "ahbgdc"
```

```cpp
target: a
s index: 0
t index: 0
```

The first target is `a`. Luckily, the first character of `t` is also `a`.

```kotlin
found: a
Now I can think inputs like this Input: s = "bc", t = "hbgdc"

after the above,

s index: 1
t index: 1
```

Then, the next target is `b` but the next character of `t` is `h`, so now

```kotlin
target: b

found: a
Now I can think inputs like this Input: s = "bc", t = "bgdc"

after the above,

s index: 1
t index: 2
```

The next character of `t` is `b`, I found `b` in `t`.

```kotlin
target: b

found: ab
Now I can think inputs like this Input: s = "c", t = "gdc"

after the above,

s index: 2
t index: 3
```

The next and next next character in `t` are `g` and `d`, so just increment `t index` from `3` to `5`.

Finally, I reached the last character in `t` and found `c`

```kotlin
target: c

found abc
Now I can think inputs like this Input: s = "", t = ""

after the above,

s index: 3
t index: 6
```

After the process, all I have to do is just to check if `s index(3)` is equal to `length of s(3)`.

```javascript
Output: true
```

That's how I think about my solution. Let's see a real algorithm below.

**Algorithm Overview:**

1. Initialize two pointers, `sp` and `tp`, to 0 to represent the starting positions of the strings `s` and `t` respectively.
2. Iterate through the characters of both strings `s` and `t`, comparing characters at the corresponding positions.
3. If a matching character is found, move the pointer in `s` forward.
4. Always move the pointer in `t` forward.
5. Check if all characters in `s` have been matched in `t`.
6. Return `True` if `s` is a subsequence of `t`, `False` otherwise.

**Detailed Explanation:**

1. Set `sp` and `tp` to 0, indicating the starting positions of `s` and `t` respectively.
    
2. Iterate through the characters of `s` and `t` using a while loop until either all characters in `s` have been matched or we reach the end of `t`.
    
    a. Check if the characters at `sp` in `s` and `tp` in `t` are equal.
    
    b. If they are equal, increment `sp` to move to the next character in `s`.
    
    c. Always increment `tp` to move forward in `t`.
    
3. After the loop, check if all characters in `s` have been matched. If `sp` is equal to the length of `s`, then `s` is a subsequence of `t`.
    
    a. Return `True` if `s` is a subsequence of `t`.
    
    b. Return `False` if `s` is not a subsequence of `t`.
    

---

# Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n)  
    `n` is longer length of input string (`s` or `t`).
    
- Space complexity: O(1)

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool isSubsequence(string s, string t) {
        int sp = 0;
        int tp = 0;

        while (sp < s.length() && tp < t.length()) {
            if (s[sp] == t[tp]) {
                sp++;
            }
            tp++;
        }

        return sp == s.length();        
    }
};
```

